---
title:  Rcpp11 3.1.1
author: "Romain François"
date:  2014-07-22

---

<div class="post-content">
<p>R 3.1.1 was released a few days ago, and as part of the policy we are trying to follow for <code>Rcpp11</code> releases, here is <code>Rcpp11</code> 3.1.1. Sorry for the 12 days delay, but I was away in California, <a href="http://blog.r-enthusiasts.com/2014/07/22/rcpp11-t-shirt-sightseeing/">and Rcpp11 travelled with me</a>, so I could not properly test the package. I have now tested the package extensively on these combinations: </p>

<ul>
<li>
<code>OS X/clang</code> at home. </li>
<li>
<code>Ubuntu/gcc 4.6.3</code> through travis</li>
<li>
<code>Windows/gcc 4.6.3</code> under duress</li>
</ul>
<p>Here is the extract of the <code>NEWS.md</code> file for this release: </p>

<h1 id="rcpp11311">Rcpp11 3.1.1</h1>

<ul>
<li><p>sugar <code>sum</code> now supports complex sugar vector expressions</p></li>
<li><p>sugar <code>mean</code> implements the double pass algorithm for <code>numeric</code>
and <code>complex</code> cases (#134)</p></li>
<li><p>more C++ support for Rcomplex: 
 <code>Rcomplex&amp; operator+=( Rcomplex&amp;, const Rcomplex&amp; )</code>
 <code>Rcomplex operator/( Rcomplex, double )</code></p></li>
<li><p>Internal refactoring/simplification of all api classes. Api classes are now 
parameterized by a class for the storage policy instead of a template 
as before. </p></li>
<li><p><code>Dots</code> and <code>NamedDots</code> handle the border case when <code>...</code> is missing (#123)</p></li>
<li><p>If the macro <code>RCPP_DO_BOUNDS_CHECKS</code> is defined, vector classes will perform
bounds checks. This is turned off by default because it kills performance. #141</p></li>
<li><p><code>Array</code> no longer generates spurious warnings. #154</p></li>
<li><p>Added the concept of lazy vectors. A lazy vector is similar to a sugar 
expression, but it only knows how to apply itself, i.e. we cannot 
call <code>operator[](int)</code> on it. This is used for implementation of 
<code>create</code> and <code>fuse</code></p></li>
<li><p><code>create</code> can now also be used as a free function. For example: 
<code>IntegerVector x = create(1,2,3) ;</code>. When used as a free function, <code>create</code> 
chooses to create a lazy vector of the highest type. For example, 
<code>create(1,2.0)</code> makes a lazy vector of type <code>REALSXP</code> (what makes sense for 
<code>double</code>). </p></li>
<li><p>Added the <code>list</code> function. It takes a variadic list of arguments and makes an
R list from it. This uses the same underlying implementation as <code>List::create</code>
but is nicer to use. </p></li>
<li><p><code>mapply</code> was reimplemented using variadic templates. <code>mapply</code> now accepts a 
function as first parameter, then a variable number of sugar expressions. </p></li>
<li><p><code>Array</code> gains a <code>fill</code> method to initialize all its data to the same value.    </p></li>
<li><p><code>is&lt;&gt;</code> was broken. </p></li>
<li><p>Initial implementation of <code>ListOf</code>. <code>ListOf&lt;T&gt;</code> is similar to <code>List</code> but 
it only exposes constructors that take <code>T</code> objects and methods that maintain 
this requirement. The implementation differs from Kevin Ushey's implementation 
in Rcpp, which IMHO tries to do too much. </p></li>
<li><p>New sugar functions <code>Filter</code>, <code>Reduce</code> and <code>Map</code> (synonym of <code>mapply</code>) #140. </p></li>
<li><p>New function <code>Negate</code>, <code>Compose</code> for intial attempt at functional programming 
and function composition #140. </p></li>
<li><p>Support for long vector has been added. Vectors are now indexed by the <code>R_xlen_t</code>
type (64 bit on 64 bit platforms). </p></li>
<li><p>The header <code>&lt;Rcpp11&gt;</code> has been added. It just includes <code>&lt;Rcpp.h&gt;</code>, but I like it 
better to have <code>#include &lt;Rcpp11&gt;</code></p></li>
<li><p>The <code>Rcpp11</code> namespace has been added as an alias to <code>Rcpp</code>. So that we can 
type <code>using namespace Rcpp11 ;</code></p></li>
<li><p>variadic trailing arguments can now be used in <code>sapply</code> (#189)</p></li>
<li><p>Logical vectors internally use the <code>Rboolean</code> type instead of <code>int</code>. </p></li>
<li><p>Added the syntax <code>x != NA</code> to test if something is not the missing value. </p></li>
<li><p>New sugar function <code>import_n</code> so that we can do <code>import_n( iterator, n )</code> 
instead of <code>import( iterator, iterator + n) ;</code></p></li>
<li><p>New sugar function <code>enumerate</code> (#153).    </p></li>
</ul>
</div>
